JIRA/NMS-12621 - Scheduled Outages are not covered in the docs (#5799)
OpenNMS/opennms: docs/modules/operation/pages/deep-dive/service-assurance/scheduled-outages.adoc

= Scheduled Outages

> Scheduled Outages allow for suppressing notifications and pausing Status Polling, Threshold Checking, and Data Collection in {page-component-title}.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Scheduled outages let you suppress notifications and pause status polling, threshold checking, and data collection during a specified time period.
```

Reviewer 2: Let's add an additional sentence as to why someone would do this.

Reviewer 3: Examples can be:

* Updating components, scheduled reboots
* planned decommissioning of nodes
* also outside influences like, power-, internet-, or data center provider are working on their products
* avoid sending notifications to not spam Slack/Email channels
* don't trigger on-call guys
* regular infrastructure test

> {page-component-title} supports many configurable options for when scheduled outages need to occur.
> 
> Scheduled Outages is located under Admin -> Service Monitoring -> Configure Scheduled Outages

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To configure scheduled outages in {page-component-title}, click the *gear* symbol at the top-right of the page and, under Service Monitoring, select *Configure Scheduled Outages*.
```

> == Components of a Scheduled Outage

Reviewer: I would suggest combining this section with the "Editing Outage" section to make this a process on creating a scheduled outage. We can also include a section on editing an existing outage if we want, but its contents would largely be the same.

```suggestion
== Create a scheduled outage

```

Author: Might this work better as a table listing out all of these items and what the possible configurations are?
Something like the "Configuration and use" section at the [NtpMonitor service monitors page](https://docs.opennms.com/horizon/31/reference/service-assurance/monitors/NtpMonitor.html#configuration-and-use)?

> A Scheduled Outage definition requires the following:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
When you define a scheduled outage, you must set the following options:
```

> . Schedule Outage Name
> . Nodes to include in the scheduled outage
> . Interfaces on a node to include in the scheduled outage
> . Outage type Specific/Daily/Weekly/Monthly
> . Date/Time the outage occurs
> . Suppression of the following
> ** All Notifications
> ** Status Polling
> ** Threshold Checking
> ** Data Collection

Reviewer: ```suggestion
. Name.
. Nodes to include.
. Node interfaces to include.
. Outage type (daily, weekly, monthly, custom).
. Date and time for the outage.
. Suppression settings (all notifications, status polling, threshold checking, data collection).
```

Author: For the Outage type, it isn't custom, it is specific.
<img width="134" alt="Screenshot 2023-02-17 at 3 13 12 PM" src="https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/111781759/219814761-93cecca1-abf2-4069-b6c6-db1207cadc6d.png">

> When an outage is scheduled, any nodes and/or interfaces matching the outage definition will be suppressed.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
During the time that an outage is scheduled, any nodes and interfaces matching the outage definition are suppressed.
```

== Editing Outage

> To enable or configure the geocoder service, use the web-based configuration tool:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You can create a scheduled outage in the {page-component-title} web UI:
```

> . In the {page-component-title} web UI, enter a name for the Schedule Outage and click the *plus* symbol in the top-right of the page.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
. Click the *gear* symbol at the top-right of the page.
. Under Service Monitoring, select *Configure Scheduled Outages*.
. Type a name for the outage in the *New Name* box and click the *add* symbol.
```

> . Under Node Labels, click the rectangular box, select a node to include in the scheduled outage, and click *Add*

Reviewer: ```suggestion
. Under Node Labels, select a node to include in the scheduled outage and click *Add*.
```

> . Under Interfaces, click the rectangular box, select a node interface to include in the scheduled outage, and click *Add*

Reviewer: ```suggestion
. Under Interfaces, select a node interface to include in the scheduled outage and click *Add*.
```

Author: I had put rectangular box since it isn't quite clear that the rectangular box _**is**_ initiates the picker.
<img width="471" alt="Screenshot 2023-02-17 at 3 16 17 PM" src="https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/111781759/219815166-5ad8ead2-d250-4bfd-ad3b-ddabdbe33f26.png">
I am also not certain how the "Add with path outage dependency" works.

> ** Alternatively, `Select all nodes and interfaces` can be clicked to include all nodes/interface

Reviewer: ```suggestion
** Alternatively, you can click *Select All Nodes and Interfaces* to include all nodes and interfaces in your monitored environment.
```

> . Under Outage Type, select Specific, Daily, Weekly, or Monthly

Reviewer: ```suggestion
. Under Outage Type, select a recurrence schedule (*Specific*, *Daily*, *Weekly*, *Monthly*).
```

Reviewer 2: I wonder why the software uses "specific" instead of "custom".

> . Set a Date/Time for the outage
> ** Depending on the outage type, the Date/Time setting will change based on the outage type

Reviewer: ```suggestion
. Set a date and time for the outage.
The available date and time settings depend on the recurrence schedule you chose:
```

> *** Specific - To/From Date/Time
> *** Daily - Time only, repeated daily
> *** Weekly - Day of week and Time To/From
> *** Monthly - Day Number of the Month and Time To/From

Reviewer: ```suggestion
** *Specific:* Set a specific date and time period.
This type of scheduled outage occurs only once during the specified period of time.
** *Daily:* Set a time period during which a daily outage will occur.
** *Weekly:* Set the day of the week and the time period during which a weekly outage will occur.
** *Monthly:* Set the day of the month and the time period during which a monthly outage will occur.
```

> . Once Outage Type/Time is set, click *Add Outage*

Reviewer: ```suggestion
. Click *Add Outage*.
```

> . Under Applies To, select from the following:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
. Under Applies To, select the functions that the outage will suppress:
```

> ** Notifications - All Notifications - Suppresses all notifications
> ** Status Polling - Select All/Unselect All - Include/Exclude specific systems from status polling during the outage
> ** Threshold Checking - Select All/Unselect All - Include/Exclude specific systems from threshold checking during the outage
> ** Data Collection -  Select All/Unselect All - Include/Exclude specific systems from collection during the outage

Reviewer: ```suggestion
** *Notifications:* Suppress all or no notifications.
** *Status Polling:* Include or exclude specific systems from status polling during the outage.
** *Threshold Checking:* Include or exclude specific systems from threshold checking during the outage.
** *Data Collection:* Include or exclude specific systems from data collection during the outage.
. Click *Save*.
```

= Scheduled Outages

Scheduled outages let you suppress notifications and pause status polling, threshold checking, and data collection during a specified time period.

== Some examples for why you would want to schedule an outage:
** Updating components, scheduled reboots
** Planned decommissioning of nodes
** Outside influences like, power-, internet-, or other unplanned maintenance
** Avoid excessive notifications to on-call staff
** Scheduled infrastructure testing
** Other events where thresholds could be reached or cause outages which could be considered normal

To configure scheduled outages in {page-component-title}, click the *gear* symbol at the top-right of the page and, under Service Monitoring, select *Configure Scheduled Outages*.

> == Create a scheduled outage

Reviewer: Suggest moving the contents of this section to the top of the "Creating a scheduled outage" section below (lines 18-52 -> 55).

When you define a scheduled outage, you must set the following options:

. Name.
. Nodes to include.
. Node interfaces to include.
. Outage type (specific, daily, weekly, monthly).
. Date and time for the outage.
. Suppression settings (all notifications, status polling, threshold checking, data collection).

> == Parameters for a Scheduled Outage
> [options="header"]
> [cols="2,2,2"]

Reviewer: ```suggestion
[caption=]
.Scheduled outage parameters
[options="autowidth"]
```

|===

> | Parameter
> | Description
> | Default

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| Parameter    | Description    | Default Value
```

| Node Labels
| Nodes to include in the scheduled outage.
| None - At least one node is required

| Outage Type

> | Specific, Daily, Weekly, Monthly

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| The outage's recurrence schedule.
An outage can be either a one-time occurrence (`Specific`) or a recurring event (`Daily`, `Weekly`, `Monthly`).
```

| Specific

| Interfaces

> | Interfaces to include in the scheduled outage.
> | None - At least one interface is required

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| Interfaces to include in the scheduled outage.
At least one interface is required to schedule an outage.
| _Blank_
```

> | What is suppressed during the outage

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| Applies To
```

> | Notifications, Status Polling, Threshold Checking, Data Collection

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| {page-component-title} services that will be suppressed during the outage (notifications, status polling, threshold checking, data collection).
You can specify items for each service, or choose *Select All*.
```

> | None

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| _Blank_
```

|===

> During the scheduled outage, any nodes and interfaces matching the outage definition are suppressed.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
During the scheduled outage, any nodes and interfaces that match the outage definition are suppressed.
```

> == Creating a Scheduled Outage

Reviewer: ```suggestion
[[scheduled-outage-create]]
== Create a scheduled outage
```

. Under Outage Type, select a recurrence schedule (*Specific*, *Daily*, *Weekly*, *Monthly*).
. Set a date and time for the outage.
The available date and time settings depend on the recurrence schedule you choose:
** *Specific:* Set a specific date and time period.
This type of scheduled outage occurs only once during the specified period of time.
** *Daily:* Set a time period during which a daily outage will occur.
** *Weekly:* Set the day of the week and the time period during which a weekly outage will occur.
** *Monthly:* Set the day of the month and the time period during which a monthly outage will occur.
. Click *Add Outage*.
. Under Applies To, select the functions that the outage will suppress:
** *Notifications:* Suppress all or no notifications.
** *Status Polling:* Include or exclude specific systems from status polling during the outage.
** *Threshold Checking:* Include or exclude specific systems from threshold checking during the outage.
** *Data Collection:* Include or exclude specific systems from data collection during the outage.
. Click *Save*.

> == Creating a Scheduled Outage for a specific node

Reviewer: ```suggestion
=== Schedule an outage for a node
```

> After navigating to the page for the node, click *Schedule Outage*, this will take you to a outage creation page for this specific node named after the node.  You can then choose whatever parameters are needed to schedule an outage for this node using the instructions from above.

Reviewer: This change relies on the one at line 54, which adds an anchor link to the "Create a scheduled outage" section.

```suggestion
You can create a scheduled outage for a specific node in {page-component-title}:

. Click menu:Info[Nodes] in the top menu bar.
. Click *Schedule Outage*.
. <<scheduled-outage-create, Create an outage>> for the node.
```

> Note - Scheduled Outages can tie into <<deep-dive/service-assurance/path-outages.adoc#ga-service-assurance-path-outage, Path Outages>>.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
NOTE: You can also use scheduled outages with xref:deep-dive/service-assurance/path-outages.adoc[path outages].
```

= Scheduled Outages

Scheduled outages let you suppress notifications and pause status polling, threshold checking, and data collection during a specified time period.
You might want to schedule an outage for any of the following reasons:

* Updating components.

> * Completing scheduled reboots.

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
* Performing scheduled reboots.
```

* Planned decommissioning of nodes.
* Preventing excessive notifications to on-call staff.
* Completing scheduled infrastructure testing.
* Other situations where known outages may be caused or thresholds may be reached

When you define a scheduled outage, you must set the following options:

* Name.
* Nodes to include.
* Node interfaces to include.
* Outage type (specific, daily, weekly, monthly).
* Date and time for the outage.
* Suppression settings (all notifications, status polling, threshold checking, data collection).

> [caption=]

Reviewer 4: I don't know that the "default value" column is needed.  Only the Outage Type field has a default, and because it shows in the Web UI, it probably doesn't need to be called out there.

= Scheduled Outages

Scheduled outages let you suppress notifications and pause status polling, threshold checking, and data collection during a specified time period.
You might want to schedule an outage for any of the following reasons:

* Updating components.
* Completing scheduled reboots.
* Planned decommissioning of nodes.
* Preventing excessive notifications to on-call staff.
* Completing scheduled infrastructure testing.
* Other situations where thresholds may be reached or outages may be caused.

To configure scheduled outages in {page-component-title}, click the *gear* symbol at the top-right of the page and, under Service Monitoring, select *Configure Scheduled Outages*.

> == Create a scheduled outage

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion

```
Remove this so we don't have two of the same topics on the same page. And moving the content as Emily suggests should work.

When you define a scheduled outage, you must set the following options:

> . Name.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
* Name.
```

> . Nodes to include.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
* Nodes to include.
```

> . Node interfaces to include.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
* Node interfaces to include.
```

> . Outage type (specific, daily, weekly, monthly).

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
* Outage type (specific, daily, weekly, monthly).
```

> . Date and time for the outage.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
* Date and time for the outage.
```

> . Suppression settings (all notifications, status polling, threshold checking, data collection).

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
* Suppression settings (all notifications, status polling, threshold checking, data collection).
```
